all right so we added two more menu
items in the last video now we need to
write the code to make these menu items
work so we're gonna go back to main
activity so I'm going to close down this
design the feed zone is called menu dot
XML I'm go to our main activity being
done on the screen and we need to add
the new items in the on options items
selected function this one here now this
takes a bit of thought because these two
options are going to keep most of the
gyro and changed
they just alter the limit parameter so
that means we have to store the base
part of the URL as a class variable
rather than a private variable now at
the moment we've got to feed URL private
in the on options item selected method
so we need to move it into the class so
that we can use its value from one call
to the next as different limits are
chosen and we also need to store the
current limit size I'm going to add two
variables to the top of the class so
what I'm going to do also is just take a
copy of that figure oh well actually
I'll cut it out of there go back up to
the top of the class and just below the
tag you're going to put the code in
there place your put this up a little
bit
I'll put it below the download data so
instead of just bad now that's gonna be
private
it's of going to be a their equals R
we're going to get the default value in
a minute then on the next line we need
to add this feed limit so I'm gonna set
that to private VAR feed limit equals 10
all right so then we're going to take a
copy of this line or top three
applications I'm going to just copy that
let's paste it in our feed URL but
instead of our where it's got 10 it'll
change that to percent d that's a
lowercase D now this is a way of
specifying an integer value that's going
to be replaced by an actual value using
a string to format function now the
string that format function takes a
string containing special format codes
like the said D and then
number of valleys that are used to
replace the format codes you can do the
same thing by concatenating strings
using plus but this is a bit neater or
and to avoid duplicating the irrelevant
to change the oncreate code so that it
uses these two fields to create the URL
that's downloaded initially so to do
that we're going to come into uncreate
method we're going to change the
download to URL method call I'm going to
delete out that hard-coded feed URL and
we had to replace that with feed URL dr.
formats feeding it so that now uses the
string dot format method to replace the
percent D in the feed URL which we added
on line 37 with the current value of
feed limit the other thing we're going
to do is with our own options item
created we also want to fix that there
as well so let's do the same thing there
I'm going to take a copy of that I don't
line that download your online I'm down
here we're going to replace it there the
other thing we need to do is we need to
replace the percent D in three places in
our own options item selected so let's
do that simply % D and % t all right so
that's done and all we have to do now is
change the value of feed limit when one
of the two menu options is chosen so to
do that we need another branch in our
win expression so let's go ahead and do
that we're going to put this before the
else so down here and what we go to the
top is r dot ID dot mnu 10 comma r dot
ID dot mnu 25 the arrow token will open
a code block and then we're going to put
our logic in here did inform whether to
select 25 or 10 or do that by putting if
not item that is checked not is
checkable what is checked
then we put item is checked equals true
so it's not checked we're setting it
equal to checked in other words we're
setting it to true to do that and we're
going to put feed limit equals 35 take
feeling there we go door locks I log dot
d parentheses tag comma double quotes on
options item selected for a Col on there
space dollar sign left to right curly
braces item title and that side of the
curly brace is sitting feed limit to
dollar feed limit then we'll put an else
there let's just copy that line to set a
bit of time then this term will be on
options item selected item feed limit
and because it's an else there wasn't
any change so we're going to just put
the text unchanged so we want to perform
pretty much the same actions which your
ever the two options is selected the
only difference here is that the new
Valley is so on to feed limit and you
can see here that there's a neat little
way to toggle between two different
numerical values and that's just to
subtract the current value from the sum
of the two so in other words 35 minus 25
kids 10 and 35 minus 10 gives 25 and
that's how the limit changed here now if
an item was already checked then we
don't need to do anything that's this
test here I'll online 72
well actually what we're doing is we're
making sure that it's not checked so if
it's already checked we're going to
ignore that and then the else code will
be handled and then we'll actually he
goes through and just logs him output to
say that this setting of free limit was
unchanged otherwise if the radio button
was select wasn't already selected or
checked in other words we're actually
checking it and they were updating free
limit and then we're logging that out
output as well now the way these radio
groups work isn't immediately obvious
but it's actually quite clever the menu
items are checked or unchecked by the
menus
and when he clicked them you have to do
that yourself in code so if either one
of those options is selected from the
menu then we test the item to see if it
was already selected if it was we don't
need to do anything else or they'll
block the fact as you can see with the
else on line 77 so that we can see
what's happening by checking the logcat
but if the item wasn't checked then
we're setting it to checked now the menu
system does help here and will
automatically uncheck any other members
of the same group for us and that's
handy because we only get a reference to
the one item passed into the method and
incidentally that's point android passes
in the item reference rather than just
its ID so we have an item to manipulate
when we need to like we're doing here
now if you want to you can find out more
information about menu option groups in
the documentation let me just bring that
up on the screen now this guide
on-screen actually covers quite a lot
about using menus in general the bit
that's specific about groups is pretty
well towards the bottom about
four-fifths of the way down there's a
section that should be there called
something along the lines of using
checkable menu items
see the code they are using checkable
menu items alright so check that out if
you want to find out more information
all right so let's go back to our app so
essentially the app should toggle
between showing the top 10 and top 25
now that we've introduced this code so
let's actually run it and see what
happens oh it starts off showing the top
10 and what we can do is we'll just
scroll down and just confirm that is the
top 10 we can in google.maps to be the
last one there and if you change this
now to top 25 and they haven't unlocked
my scrolling down clearly there's more
applications showing there so that's
good that the top 25 is now running as
well
and we can also if we want to confirm
that and have a look at logcat and
confirm that the change did actually
occur and we can see the data being
downloaded there to scroll up above that
top 25 setting feed limit to 25 and to
make it easier we can filter on main
activity let's do that main activity as
they can see now on options are selected
top 25 was selected and feed limit was
set to 25 and just to confirm if we go
back and set it to top 25 again you can
see this time top 25 setting free limit
unchanged so it's logging the fact that
the limit wasn't changed but there is a
problem though and that's that it
downloads the data again even though
nothing's changed and we can see that
here the fact that it started the async
task now that's a good way to drain the
device battery or incur roaming data
charges so we really should do something
about that now by thinking back to the
activity life cycle you should be able
to work out what will happen when I
rotate the device into landscape what
I'm going to do is just clear the logcat
so that we can see the log entries from
download data and past applications I'm
going to remove the filter to main
activity I shall clear the log count
again now that I've done that let's go
and open up the app or bring them back
onto the screen
let's rotate that and see what happens
so what I do that you can see from the
logcat here that it downloads the data
again and that's because the activity is
destroyed and recreated but also if we
come over here and check out the code
you can see what's happened here is that
it set the limit back to 10
rather than 25 enough again because the
activities got destroyed and recreated
but we know how to fix that by storing
the value in the instance state bundle
is in the unsafe instance state to
function you know ideally the code
should store the last used URL and only
download the data again if the URL was
actually changed if we do that we need
to provide some way for the user to
refresh the data manually but at least
then they'd be able to make a conscious
decision to use their mobile data or use
up some of their battery life rather
than our app just doing it anyway
unfortunately those saving something as
complex as an adapter isn't as
straightforward as just storing it in
the instance state bundle and that
probably wouldn't be the best approach
anyway if we wanted to save performing a
download when the device orientation
changed it's probably better to cache
the downloaded data in the same way that
web browsers do so that way you can
allow your activity to be destroyed and
recreated when the device is rotated and
the redownload he would read the data
from the local cache instead of over the
internet now that's a bit much for only
the third up in the course so this app
is just going to download the data again
when the device is rotated but if you do
want to learn more about caching
downloads there's a pretty decent Google
article which I'm just going to bring up
on the screen to check out
and basically we can prevent redundant
downloads when men when menu items are
click though and can also make sure that
the correct a URL and feed limit are
used when the device is rotated so that
sounds like a good challenge now one
problem you'll have that I haven't
covered is how to set the current menu
limit once we restored the feed limit
value now the place to do that is in the
oncreate options menu method now the
approach is very similar to working with
widgets in a layout but here we're
working with items in a menu
so let's actually have a look at that so
uncreate options menu we've got the menu
not flightline and what we want to do
after that is put in some code that says
if feed limit is equal to 10 then we're
going to do a menu question mark for an
item I don't I do a menu 10 question
mark outside of the parentheses dot is
checked is equal to true I'm going to
add an else otherwise and the else is
going to be basically very similar but
it's going to be the art the a menu 25
so the top 25 button so they also be
menu question mark dot file item
parentheses are don't ID dot a menu 25
in question like outside of the
parentheses dot is checked equals true
and then we're just going to return true
as it was before so we used the menu dot
final item method then set the is
checked property to check either the a
menu 10 or any new 25 item depending on
the value of the limit now notice that
we're using the safe call operator a lot
here menu was a nullable type so we have
to use safe call when calling it's find
item method and we also use it before
accessing the is checked property now
you might be wondering why I didn't just
change the function signature after all
I've been doing so with a parent
appeared and happen till now well as I
said you need to think very carefully
before doing that now in here we can't
be certain that we can't do it
so our app could use one of the no
action bar themes which means it
wouldn't have
you so in that case menu would be null
now it's likely that on create options
menu won't be called in that case you'd
have to examine the android framework
code to be sure which would take some
time so it's easier just to use safe
calls at least in this scenario if in
doubt don't modify the framework
signatures now of course if Google Ad
and a non null annotation then you'll
know that so we could have changed it
when that happens the code generator
will generate the method without using a
nullable type alright so with that
change you should now be able to have a
go with the challenge so here's the
challenge so you want to modify the app
so that doesn't download data from the
same URL a second time unless the user
specifically chooses to refresh the data
now you also store the current URL and
limit so that they aren't reset when the
device orientation changes the data will
still be downloaded again following a
change in orientation but it should
download from the same URL that the user
was looking at before they rotated the
device so to be clear the only three
events that should cause data to be
downloaded firstly a change in
orientation secondly selecting a
different URL or limit from the menu so
if the same menu of limit is sector from
the menu a second time data wouldn't be
downloaded and thirdly if the user
chooses to refresh the feed with the
refresh menu option that you're going to
actually add and just as a hint there
review the activity lifecycle before
restoring the data from the bundle now
there's more than one way to achieve
this challenge so the real test here is
just that the app works all right so
I'll go over my solution to this in the
next video